move anakinra to pharmaceuticals (#757)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.pharmaceuticals.md

Additionally, different studies used different dosages, number of doses, and methods of administration; ongoing research may be needed to optimize administration of TCZ [@doi:10.1016/j.jcv.2020.104443], although similar results were reported by one study for intravenous and subcutaneous administration [@doi:10/d2pk].
Clinical trials that are in progress are likely to provide additional insight into the effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of COVID-19 along with how it should be administered.

###### Anakinra

> **Anticipated Mechanism.**

Author: ```suggestion

```
We changed the format to less explicitly use these subheadings, so I'll remove them in the text here!

Additionally, different studies used different dosages, number of doses, and methods of administration; ongoing research may be needed to optimize administration of TCZ [@doi:10.1016/j.jcv.2020.104443], although similar results were reported by one study for intravenous and subcutaneous administration [@doi:10/d2pk].
Clinical trials that are in progress are likely to provide additional insight into the effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of COVID-19 along with how it should be administered.

###### Anakinra
**Anticipated Mechanism.**

> Anakinra is a recombinant of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) that blocks binding of IL-1α, or IL-1β to IL-1R1.

Author: ```suggestion
Anakinra is a recombinant of the IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and blocks the binding of IL-1α and IL-1β to IL-1R1.
```

Additionally, different studies used different dosages, number of doses, and methods of administration; ongoing research may be needed to optimize administration of TCZ [@doi:10.1016/j.jcv.2020.104443], although similar results were reported by one study for intravenous and subcutaneous administration [@doi:10/d2pk].
Clinical trials that are in progress are likely to provide additional insight into the effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of COVID-19 along with how it should be administered.

##### Anakinra
**Anticipated Mechanism.**
Anakinra is a recombinant of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) that blocks binding of IL-1α, or IL-1β to IL-1R1.

> Its main task is to reduce inflammation caused by IL-1-mediation, which finds a broad spectrum of applications, including acute stroke [@doi10.1136/jnnp.2004.054882], rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.3899/jrheum.090074], and several hereditary, systemic or local inflammatory diseases [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa055137, @doi:10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3, @doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.01157].

Author: ```suggestion
It is primarily used to reduce inflammation by mediating IL-1, providing a broad spectrum of applications that include the treatment of acute stroke [@doi10.1136/jnnp.2004.054882], rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.3899/jrheum.090074], and several hereditary, systemic or local inflammatory diseases [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa055137, @doi:10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3, @doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.01157].
```

> The application of Anakinra features a very safety profile, and has a very low rate of side effects and prolonged duration.

Author: Wow, it's quite hard to find good safety profiles of Anakinra! I will keep looking.

> 
> **Current Evidence.**

Author: ```suggestion
```

In two retrospective cohort studies, first at the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan, Italy with 29 patients treated with high dosages of anakinra and 16 controls [@doi:10.1016/S2665-9913(20)30127-2], and second at Groupe Hospitalier Paris Saint-Joseph Paris, France, with 96 participants in France, among which 52 were treated with the drug and 44 were administered standard protocols, anakinra has proven to progressively improve respiratory function, dicrease likelihood of application of invasive mechanical ventilation, and significantly reduce mortality [@doi:10.1016/S2665-9913(20)30164-8].

> **Summary.**

Author: ```suggestion
```

Additionally, different studies used different dosages, number of doses, and methods of administration; ongoing research may be needed to optimize administration of TCZ [@doi:10.1016/j.jcv.2020.104443], although similar results were reported by one study for intravenous and subcutaneous administration [@doi:10/d2pk].
Clinical trials that are in progress are likely to provide additional insight into the effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of COVID-19 along with how it should be administered.

##### Anakinra
Anakinra is a recombinant of the IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) and blocks the binding of IL-1α and IL-1β to IL-1R1.

> It is primarily used to reduce inflammation by mediating IL-1, providing a broad spectrum of applications that include the treatment of acute stroke [@doi10.1136/jnnp.2004.054882], rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.3899/jrheum.090074], and several hereditary, systemic or local inflammatory diseases [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa055137, @doi:10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3, @doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.01157].

Author: ```suggestion
Its primary function is to reduce inflammation by mediating IL-1, providing a broad spectrum of applications that include the treatment of acute stroke [@doi10.1136/jnnp.2004.054882], rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.3899/jrheum.090074], and several hereditary, systemic or local inflammatory diseases [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa055137, @doi:10.1186/s12969-017-0147-3, @doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.01157].
```
@RLordan's suggestion that got lost while I was trying to figure out how to merge in all the suggestions!

Anakinra has a favorable safety profile with very low rates of reported side effects in therapeutic studies for rheumatoid arthritis [@doi:10.1136/ard.2005.048371; @doi:10.1093/rheumatology/kew208; @url:https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/12/22/2149573/0/en/FDA-Approves-KINERET-anakinra-for-the-Treatment-of-Deficiency-of-IL-1-Receptor-Antagonist-DIRA.html].

To date, a couple of cohort studies have been conducted to determine the therapeutic value of anakinra. 
The first study at the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan, Italy, intravenously treated 29 patients with high doses of anakinra versus 16 controls, all of whom received the standard of care at the time [@doi:10.1016/S2665-9913(20)30127-2]. 
A second cohort study at the Groupe Hospitalier Paris Saint-Joseph in Paris, France, subcutaneously administered anakinra to 52 patients who also received standard care at the time versus 44 historical control subjects. 

> In both studies, anakinra seemed to improve respiratory function, decrease the likelihood of requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, and in Paris, it significantly reduced mortality [@doi:10.1016/S2665-9913(20)30164-8]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both studies, anakinra seemed to improve respiratory function, decrease the likelihood of requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, and in Paris, it significantly reduced mortality [@doi:10/gg4smj]. 
```

Can we be more precise?  "Seemed to improve" sounds qualitative, whereas other trial summaries have been more quantitative.

> Similar observation was made in [@doi:10.1007/s11739-020-02600-z], where anakinra was used as a second tier after no response to standard corticosteroids or combination of corticosteroids and tocilizumab treatments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar observation was made in [@doi:10.1007/s11739-020-02600-z], where anakinra was used as a second tier after no response to standard corticosteroids or combination of corticosteroids and tocilizumab treatments.
```

What was the result of this trial?

> 
> In another retrospective cohort study carried by Radboud University Medical Center (Nijmegen, The Netherlands) and Bernhoven Hospital (Uden, The Netherlands), Anakinra was found to effectively reduce hyperinflammation clinical signs for critically ill patients.[@doi:10.1186/s13054-020-03364-w]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In another retrospective cohort study carried by Radboud University Medical Center (Nijmegen, The Netherlands) and Bernhoven Hospital (Uden, The Netherlands), Anakinra was found to effectively reduce hyperinflammation clinical signs for critically ill patients [@doi:10.1186/s13054-020-03364-w]. 
```

As above, I recommend being more quantitative about what we mean by "effectively reduce".

> The previous findings were not confirmed in a recent randomized clinical trial carried in 16 hospitals in France, which included 116 patients, with 59 in anakinra cohort and 57 in control group. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous findings were not confirmed in a recent randomized clinical trial carried in 16 hospitals in France, which included 116 patients, with 59 in the anakinra cohort and 57 in the control group. 
```

> In this study anakinra was not confirmed to reduce mortality for COVID-19 and mild-to-moderate pneumonia patients treated intravenously.

Reviewer: Same request, can you please add more about the trial results or statistics?

The limitations of this study are a different treatment protocol than the previous studies (half of the dosage, which was admitted intravenously) and not analyzing severe COVID-19 cases [@10.1016/S2213-2600(20)30556-7].

> Anakinra may be a promising treatment option worthy of further investigation for patients with severe forms of COVID-19.

Reviewer: This conclusion seems too strong or optimistic to me given the evidence above.
